New gameplay footage just dropped for
Total War Warhammer 40,000 at the PC
Game Show. It includes campaign visuals,
gameplay of actual combat with unit
cards, etc. So, let's dive into it. So,
once more, I have prepared a recap of
the presentation. You can see it's light
on words because although the Creative
Assembly folks were talking to us, much
of the value actually came in terms of
what they're showing us. So, a lot of
the job here is going to be teasing
apart information from screenshots. So,
let's go ahead and get into it. The
first thing to note is that they said
there there's going to be an onboard
experience. It's going to be a tight
story-driven campaign that focuses
around Armageddon. Again, we're seeing
this kind of general push across 40K to
come around Armageddon. This lets us
focus on Yarrick and Ghazghkull, and
obviously this is meant to introduce new
players to the setting, either new
players to 40K or new players to Total
War. We'll be having a lot of those in
spades with this new title. So, it makes
sense that they want a soft landing to
them and introduce us to the new
mechanics, especially even for veterans.
You know, this will be useful as a way
to get into the campaign. So, that'll be
very curated. Uh then they get into the
world variety. So, again, they say that
there's a system at play where the
planets can be sort of randomly
generated, but based upon inputs that
guide its uh kind of output of the
system. So, in this case, you have a
sort of a general development type. So,
it could be hive, agri, mining,
frontier. And then the biome inherent to
that planet might be ice, arid,
temperate, or waste. And it's the
combinations of those that tell the
system how to generate said planet
because, you know, at the end of the
day, if I zoom out here, there is an
intent to have a galaxy-wide map with
tons of different randomly generated
planets. And so, there needs to be a
dynamic system here.
And they did show a little bit of a clip
of that uh where you could start to see
the different combinations. So, you're
not just choosing arid or ice. There's
actually arid times ice, or arid times
temperate. And the combination of that
plus the level of development gets you
really nuanced uh outputs. And again,
this looks great. So, as a key example,
arid and ice looks like this, you know,
lots of craters, more contrast. And then
later here, if you were to take arid but
mix it with waste, it gets polluted
water, sulfuric pools, things of that
nature. So, in concept, it looks great.
In execution, we'll see how that affects
the scattering of cell mints and all
that. But, so far, looks pretty good.
Uh then, they showed us a little bit
more of the close-ups of the planet in
development. Again, I think these look
really great. They keep showing us kind
of similar ones, which makes me think
these are the most polished versions.
It's the hive cities. These are the ones
that just stand out the most in terms of
the lore because of just the scope and
scale of the cathedrals and these hive
city spires. Uh but, yeah, nothing much
to be said here besides it looks great.
Then, we move on to the battlefields
themselves. Uh they had a couple
comments to make here. Uh two
fundamental things. The first is they
want these environments to match the
biome and the level of development of
the uh planet that they're in. And then,
the second one is that they want the uh
environments to be sort of um
speaking to the scale of 40K. So, you
see a lot of that here. Exaggerated
terrain, exaggerated architecture, stuff
that often goes up into the cloud peaks.
And uh yeah, from the variety that we've
seen of the environments, they look
great. Creative Assembly also mentioned
that they are looking to have different
combinations of sort of tiles in these
battle maps so that you have open spaces
for these big flung battles, but then
tighter choke points probably if you
want to go around the flank or if you
want to control a key area. So, a a nice
mix of uh those different concepts.
And I think it was mentioned in a prior
video or prior blog that no, these are
not randomly generated battlefields.
Instead, these are all kind of
hand-crafted
uh bespoke um battlefields that then get
their parts and colors swapped out and
maybe slightly modified. But, the basis
for all of these is I believe is I
believe to be something where they're
kind of hand-designing all of them,
which makes sense when it comes to stuff
like 40K where range and visibility and
movement is much more important than
something like, you know, sword and
board titles. Um you really have to
curate that because a random generally
generated set could have some pretty bad
experiences. So, overall, shaping out
really well.
And they're doing a lot of stuff that I
like that was mentioned in another
video, which is basically the
environmental storytelling. Yes, you may
drop into a a big battlefield that seems
awesome, but it could be empty. So,
they're adding lots of details here like
background fighting. There'll be ships
flying over. Sometimes there's actually
even kind of like NPC type skirmishers
fighting their own battles from other
factions within the environment when you
drop in. So, all about bring to
to to life the the scope and the scale.
Uh then we have this really cheeky view
of them where they showed us their
screen as they're going over the
campaign map. Again, it's a little
blurry, but this is as best as I could
capture it as they zoomed in. So, at the
highest level here, this is going to be
probably your galactic level or as close
to the galactic level as you can imagine
it. So, here you can see all the
different systems that you can choose
from. Perhaps this is the galactic
uh center here.
And then they went in and they clicked
in on a system. And so, here you can see
you start to get a little closer. And
then um when you click on the actual um
kind of icon here, it brings you to a
particular solar system. So, that is
looking good. Again, it's very blurry in
per- uh you know, on purpose. They
probably don't want us to see much, but
you could see this here sort of how it's
shaping up. And again, I'll I'll bring
you back to some early note-taking that
I had done to show you that they are
going to have this overall crusade
theater, which is the galactic map. And
then within that, you can have your
particular campaigns, long, short, and
then these strike battles, which are
like decisive battles. Um but yeah,
within these long campaigns, you might
have
uh it taking place within one solar
system. So, that's kind of what we're
seeing here. All the way you click down,
you're in your solar system, that's your
uh long campaign if it has about 10
planets or so or so. And then a short
campaign if it has just a few planets.
So, naturally, you know, zooming back
out, that means that all the way here,
this is probably the equivalent of the
crusade theater that we were, you know,
speculating how big it would be. So,
yeah, it looks to be pretty much the
same. I do hope that they bring in some
of the visuals here. This looks to me to
be pretty placeholder. Um but yeah, I
like uh the scope of where it's going.
Uh at the end of the video, they then
teased that the closed beta uh sign-ups
are available. Um go ahead and do that.
I'll link it below. But for now, let's
get into the most interesting juicy
part, which is going to be the actual
units, combats, etc. So, I'll be playing
some B-roll from the video, but
essentially, here is the important
stuff. We see, you know, cool units, the
Imperial Guard mostly, and the Orcs.
Now, we'll be seeing more factions in
the future, but these are the main parts
that are shown off. So, they do show us
some up-close shots just showing the
details of the Commissars, the unit, you
know, soldier-level
details of how they can get blood
splatters and all that. And they're not
holding back on the gore here. The new
destruction system enabled by the new uh
you know, engine allows them to really
blow everyone up to blow blow everyone
up into little giblets, uh which you can
see here as, you know, swords and
weapons go flying, body parts go up in a
crunch, and you saw some uh animations
that were really brutal, especially with
the corpses on the ground. So, they're
not holding back on the violence and the
40K grittiness.
Then we get here into a sequence of
really short uh videos of the battle
itself. I went ahead and paused it at a
couple points that I thought was
interesting. So, the first one is here.
Uh a couple things to note is just the
scale of the battlefield itself. They
did say that they wanted to make sure
that there was enough open combat that
you could have these big classic Total
War battles that feel epic. So, yes, you
have that, but at the same time, there's
the importance of cover systems, which
you can see down here. There's buildings
that you can control, sightlines that
are important, and you're presumably
slowed and debuffed once you go through
the the low terrain. But yeah, that's
all looking good. Uh and then another
thing that you can see here is going to
be, well, when you mouse over these
different uh units, you can start to get
details. So, let's look a little bit
closer down here. The first thing to
note is a return of the, you know,
20-unit card system. I didn't see more
than that, but presumably with
reinforcements, you can get higher, but
it looks like that's still a return to
the standard.
Uh they tweaked the UI a little bit from
the last kind of gameplay that we saw.
I like this. It's a little bit closer to
the the traditional. Uh not quite sure
what all these buttons are. I suppose
we'll see in the future. But one thing
we are seeing is unit cards. So, I did
pluck out a couple of those, which we
can see here,
uh from the different uh units. So, a
couple things that are important is
well, you can see the unit size. It
seems like some of the larger units for
kind of squishy light troops, like
apparently Cadian Shock Troopers are
squishy. I mean, I guess it's guard, so
yeah. You have 100 of these. Presumably,
the orcs would get up in there, but the
more the the biggest one that I saw that
they actually clicked on was like the
knobs. That was limited to 40, but
that's probably the range we're talking
about. 100, maybe 200 from some like
Tyranid swarmy type folks is probably
the range of what we're dealing with.
Uh and then yeah, otherwise looking at
the unit cards, we have some tank
commanders who apparently like you can
probably upgrade their ride. In this
case, he was in a tank.
Uh and then you have different
stand-alone tanks, Leman Russ, Punisher,
Baneblade for the orcs, the Battlewagon,
etc.
And then in terms of the UI here, you
can see different icons. So, 40 is going
to be like their speed. This is probably
their range or their visibility.
Uh this is probably how many kills
they've gotten. And then below, take a
look at this. They've come up with a
system to show you how well your unit
performs against different types of
armor. I like revealing that up front.
In previous Total War games, it was more
about just a single armor piercing uh
stat versus now, it's much more visual
and it tells you exactly how well are
you are you going to do against a light
target, medium, and a heavy target. So,
obviously, Cadian Shock Troopers is not
doing too much, but put your guys in a
tank and they can start to crunch
through, especially especially the
Baneblade, which here basically does
full damage against everything. Uh the
next thing you'll note for these unit
cards is that there are these little
icons that are sort of grafted onto the
bottom of your units, and this probably
ties into the way that you can customize
your units, deck them out with different
pieces of equipment. And it looks like
even here, there's an icon that maybe
represents an officer an off an officer
or maybe just how much leadership or
banners or something. But yeah, that was
interesting to note, although it seems
like all of them have it, so maybe it's
something generic. But uh yeah, you do
get uh specialized equipment tagged onto
each of these units.
Uh next thing we saw was uh yeah, more
combat here. I just wanted to capture
this, another vantage point. You can
start to see the custom
uh cover system in play, which I'll show
later on. But again, uh yeah, it's
looking pretty good. And I did exert out
uh some more unit cards that we saw
non-expanded. But yeah, in the collapsed
view, you can see sort of how intuitive
this is. So, looking at this, you can
see basically how much damage they're
going to do to different uh types. So,
again, remember that this is light,
medium, and heavy. So, the Baneblade
here, apparently, not doing much damage
to the light, but very much to the
heavies.
Uh and same thing for the Orcs. You
could see that uh the war boss in mega
armor is basically a a world beater
here.
Um but yeah, very interesting. I think
it's nice. It's actually very easy to
intuit just how well your unit is going
to perform. So, I like the way that
they're they're um designing this UI UI,
very smart.
Uh another thing I was able to capture
here is there's a quick snippet where
they clicked on a button and it seemed
to be to call in strategic reserves. So,
this is where you have your off-map
support fleet or maybe adjacent armies
that you can decide to bring in. Not
quite clear if they are just going to
walk off from the sides of the
battlefield uh as we've seen in previous
Total Wars or if they all get, you know,
dropped in from a lander. Uh seems like
with the Space Marines and the Starties,
for instance, you will get drop pods.
Not sure if that'll be for every type of
unit, but there it is. So, there's your
strategic reserves that you can pull in.
And you can see here uh again, command
limit going all the way up to 40 with
these reinforcements pulled in.
Uh another thing that I saw for like a
literal just freeze frame was uh this.
You can see a bombing run. Presumably,
you're able to, you know, call in stuff
from your support teams. So, in this
case, it looks like you can call in your
fleets do a bombardment or maybe this is
an aerial
uh
yeah, an attack craft wing or who knows
what. But anyways, it's going to come in
and probably bomb this area. So, our
first indication of what those call-ins
might look like.
Uh and then as we get further, this is
the most interesting part that everyone
was worried about, which is how is the
cover system going to work? So, in this
case, they showed a couple just couple
seconds long interactions. So, again,
freeze framing this, you can see that
here the unit moves in in sort of a
traditional Total War
um
infantry line of battle formation,
Napoleonic Wars that people were worried
about, but you can tell that's only when
you have them moving about. Once they
get into form into cover here, then they
will actually interact with the
available cover and, you know, form up
buttress themselves against the walls
and form up two, three men deep in the
available cover.
Once you're in cover, you know, it says
obviously you're harder to hit, um more
range resistance, more evasion, more
suppression resistance. So, I like that.
Uh I'm not quite sure what evasion
means. Probably it if doesn't mean melee
or does it mean like just shrapnel and
artillery and stuff. Not quite sure what
the difference is between just outright
damage and evasion. So, that rests to be
seen, but overall you can see cover has
some significant advantages there.
Uh and then I did take a couple more
shots of the cover system. One of them
was interesting where you could see as
they were dragging cover for a couple,
you know, frames, it did show that as
you drag it, you can actually place
units up top. So, I'm not quite sure
what that'll look like if you tell your
units to do that. Are they going to
magically teleport up there or do they
clamber up? I would assume it was going
to be kind of the the teleport system in
the same way that you interact with
walls in traditional 40 uh or sorry,
Total War titles, but uh we'll see. The
clamber system could be there, but I I'm
guessing it's just going to be some sort
of teleporter or like a a jump system
that might look a little janky, but
maybe a necessity of this system.
Uh and then lastly, you can see as
troops move over cover. In the past, we
had the annoying issue, which is you
want to use cover, but as you walk over
it, you destroy cover. Uh versus in this
system, it seems like infantry are going
to do their best actually clamber over
cover systems and not destroy them.
Uh but if you wanted to destroy it, you
could. That's going to be what happens
when you pull in a vehicle.
So, I did get an image here of a battle
wagon as it's moving through cover
systems and you can see as it's doing so
there's a cover speed reduction high.
Not quite sure what that means. If
that's basically an impediment which is
as it's moving through cover it actually
gets a slow down to its movement or what
exactly this means if it's the vehicle
impacting the terrain or the terrain
impacting the vehicle or what this
means. But anyways, there's some
interaction there that I guess we'll
have to learn about more of in the
future.
Uh and the last thing here is we got a
close up of the units in cover. Again,
it looks a little bit janky, but we're
getting closer to sort of sort of a a
Company of Heroes style cover system uh
although that only seems to be
interactions with certain pieces of
cover as you can see here. Yes, I kind
of lock into this cover, but presumably
if you're out here and you see just a
piece of crater, can you interact with
that? Do units dynamically interact with
it? Um if the tower or the you know the
bashing here or whatever the building
collapses, does it form cover that you
can dock into? That's all to be seen. Uh
if our wishes come true, then yes,
anything would be subject to this kind
of cover enable enabling system. So if a
building collapses, yes, it should now
turn yellow. If a crater is formed from
an impact, yes, it should turn yellow.
But I didn't see that in this video that
will
be something that we have to wait to
confirm.
So yeah, that is basically it. Like I
said, uh this was all kind of screen
grabs, a lot of show don't tell. And
yeah, I'm very excited for what they've
seen uh they've shown so far and I'm
really interested to see how they
explain a lot of what we've kind of
teased out here. But yeah, that's been
it, quick and dirty. Uh but yeah, I hope
to see more and I'll see you guys in the
next one. Bye.